Blogpost about v2 paper (#3454)
nf-core/website: sites/main-site/src/content/blog/2025/paper-v2.mdx

---
title: "Empowering bioinformatics communities with Nextflow and nf-core"
subtitle: "Genome Biology review"
pubDate: 2025-08-06T12:00:00+01:00
headerImage: "/assets/images/blog/paper-v2/paper-v2.png"
headerImageAlt: "Genome Biology review title: Empowering bioinformatics communities with Nextflow and nf-core"

> embedHeaderImage: true

Author: ```suggestion
embedHeaderImage: false
```

This partnership also led to the creation of the [Special Interest Groups](https://nf-co.re/blog/2024/special_interest_groups) at nf-core.
The new publication describes how the adoption of Nextflow and nf-core by EuroFAANG led to more efficient and reproducible cross-institutional working and analysis, as shown by the contribution to and/or use of nf-core pipelines in the figure below.
We also report in the paper, how other initiatives, such as the Darwin Tree of Life (DToL) project or Genomics England, are also adopting nf-core components in their workflows, also adopting FAIR principle and demonstrating the utility of nf-core for other communities.

<Image
    src={paperv2fig2B}
    class="d-block m-auto"
    width={400}
    density={[1.5, 2]}
    alt="Pipeline maintenance and usage. Nextflow analysis pipelines used in the EuroFAANG consortia for the functional annotation of various species’ genomes"
/>

### Acknowledgements

We would like to thank Björn E. Langer and Cedric Notredame for leading this effort and all the EuroFAANG and nf-core community members without whom this would not have been possible.

### Looking to the future

> We are looking forward to see where the community will be in 5 years for the next publication.
> Maxime is hoping for world domination.
> The rest of the core team is hoping for pipeline chaining, and more goodness in general.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The nf-core community, as always, is in constant evolution and we are already cooking the the next wave of advacements. Features such as pipeline chaining, the adoption of the Nextflow strict syntax or the exploration of AI driven solutions that could help our pipelines to become even more FAIR are on the works. Looking forward for a future publication that will showcase these exciting developments once they’re ready to be shared.
```

This partnership also led to the creation of the [Special Interest Groups](https://nf-co.re/blog/2024/special_interest_groups) at nf-core.
The new publication describes how the adoption of Nextflow and nf-core by EuroFAANG led to more efficient and reproducible cross-institutional working and analysis, as shown by the contribution to and/or use of nf-core pipelines in the figure below.
We also report in the paper, how other initiatives, such as the Darwin Tree of Life (DToL) project or Genomics England, are also adopting nf-core components in their workflows, also adopting FAIR principle and demonstrating the utility of nf-core for other communities.

<Image
    src={paperv2fig2B}
    class="d-block m-auto"
    width={400}
    density={[1.5, 2]}
    alt="Pipeline maintenance and usage. Nextflow analysis pipelines used in the EuroFAANG consortia for the functional annotation of various species’ genomes"
/>

### Acknowledgements

We would like to thank Björn E. Langer and Cedric Notredame for leading this effort and all the EuroFAANG and nf-core community members without whom this would not have been possible.

### Looking to the future

> The nf-core community, as always, is in constant evolution and we are already cooking the the next wave of advacements. Features such as pipeline chaining, the adoption of the Nextflow strict syntax or the exploration of AI driven solutions that could help our pipelines to become even more FAIR are on the works. Looking forward for a future publication that will showcase these exciting developments once they’re ready to be shared.

Reviewer 2: 0k fair enough. I don't think people will hold us to it - i put it more to show we plan for longevity of the project, and '5 year plans' are common in loads of places. But you can remove that bit if you want
